---
title: 6 Months…
author: sathya
type: post
date: 2008-01-12T17:54:11+00:00
url: /2008/01/12/6-months/

arkayne-time-post:
  - "1325730240"
categories:
  - Life
tags:
  - 3i
  - Chennai
  - Life

---
That&#8217;s how long I&#8217;ve been in Chennai, working for [3i Infotech][1].  
I can&#8217;t believe that 6 months have gone by so fast. I still remember the days after I&#8217;d given my interview for the job at 3i, checking mails every hour after the prescribed day(ie, a week after the interview) to check for status on whether I&#8217;ve been selected or not. On the D-Day(it was a Saturday), I was pretty ecstatic to know that I&#8217;ve been selected for the job(My Mom told me I yelled out so loud she thought I received an electric-shock! ❗ ) On July 5th, I left Mangalore, my beloved hometown for Chennai. Initially when I got the info that Chennai would be my place of posting, I was like 😕 So far, it&#8217;s been a mixed bag. Made some pretty good friends here, the weather is similar to Mangalore, only a bit hotter(frankly, I wouldn&#8217;t know as I&#8217;m in office the whole day). The Auto-Drivers are fleecers, more than any other city auto-wallahs), and people have no driving sense \*at all\*. They don&#8217;t know what &#8220;Stop and Proceed&#8221; mean! I&#8217;ve also lost weight &#8211; more than 10 kilos 😐  
On the good side, I&#8217;ve been fortunate enough to be under a good project with good team-mates. The learning curve has been pretty steep, after all Insurance and it&#8217;s related concepts is not easy to grasp. I&#8217;m learning new things everyday, and never thought Insurance would be this complicated! I&#8217;m still a trainee though &#8211; that tag will still stick to me for another 6 months. So here&#8217;s me hoping that the next 6 months will be even better!  
Cheers!

 [1]: https://www.3i-infotech.com/
